# Rescue Net

Current instruments and methods fail at predicting natural calamities like
earthquake. Tsunami predictions are made about a few hours before which leads
to problems in evacuation of the targetted area. Due to such shortcomings,
authorities are not able to take adequate measures to prevent the loss of life.
A lot of research is undergoing to try and predict such disasters in a timely
manner. Until then we require a system to minimize the loss of lfe and making
sure that people are safe.


## Team Introduction

The team (_mainCRTStartup) comprises three 2nd year undergraduates currently 
pursuing Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) at IIT Roorkee. Their names 
are as follows:

* Nikunj Gupta
* Kanav Gupta
* Rohit Ashiwal


## Project Explanation

Our project focuses on the latter. We establish a direct communication between
the victim and the concerned authorities through 
`RF transmission and reception`. We use a drone as a long range RF emitter
and the mobile device as an RF receiver. If the connection is established, we
share the location and information of the person holding the mobile device.
This enables the authorities to act upon the situation accordingly. Also,
rescue authorities will now focus more on areas where communication has been
established saving there time which would otherwise go in searching in areas
with potentially no civilian.

## Proposed Features

### Location Determination

An effective connection would enable us to track the victim. This data will
then be shared directly with the authorities.

### Identification

An effective connection would enable us to fetch information about the user.
This data will then be shared directly with the authorities.

### Assessment

Since the signal receives a number of response, an approximately accurate 
assessment can be made. Such catastrophic disasters can then be assessed 
precisely.

### Safety deduction

After being rescued people can then emit signal signifying that they are safe. 
This will help in conveying the required details to the concerned family 
members.